Protempa 2.0.2 -- A Temporal Query Framework for Clinical Databases
Center for Comprehensive Informatics, Emory University

OVERVIEW

Welcome to Protempa! It supports the construction of software systems
for querying clinical databases, summarizing patient data, detecting
clinically significant data patterns in groups of patients or
individual patients, and extract, transform and load (ETL). Its
special feature, temporal abstraction, supports queries and
summarization of data in terms of temporal patterns.  Temporal
patterns enable robust querying and extraction of clinical history.
These patterns include frequencies (at least two, three, etc. of some
event or observation); sequences (chemotherapy followed by surgery
within 180 days, a hospital encounter followed by another hospital
encounter within 30 days); and overlaps (falling platelet counts in
the setting of HELLP syndrome).  Protempa is the foundation for the
Eureka! Clinical Analytics tool, available from
http://aiw.sourceforge.net.

WHAT'S NEW

Version 2.0.2 improves support for specifying property constraints in
temporal abstraction definitions, for example, encounters with a type
of Inpatient. This release allows using pre-property constraint
temporal abstraction ontologies that lack the propertyConstraint slot.

REQUIREMENTS

The current version is known to work with Oracle Java 6. It is
expected to work with OpenJDK 6 as well. It is incompatible with Java
7.

Protempa uses the Maven build system, available from
http://maven.apache.org.  You must install maven, if you do not
already have it, to work with the source code. We use Maven 3.

INSTALLATION

The easiest way to get Protempa is using Maven. It is available from
the http://maven.cci.emory.edu:8081 repository. Use the following
dependency declaration:

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.protempa</groupId>
    <artifactId>protempa</artifactId> 
    <version>2.0.2</version>
</dependency>

The source code is also available in tarball and zip file formats from
http://aiw.sourceforge.net/dev/protempa-2.0.2.

Please see the technical documentation linked below for detailed
instructions on what the framework does and how to use it.

CONTACTING US

Please send an email to aiwhelp@emory.edu for support or questions.

LICENSING

Protempa is freely available as open source under the Apache License,
Version 2.0. A copy of the license is in the LICENSE file provided in
this distribution.

Protempa is Copyright (C) 2012 Emory University.

MORE INFORMATION

Please see http://aiw.sourceforge.net/dev/protempa-2.0.2 for technical
documentation and more information.
